Hi.
This is Greg Golightly, and welcome to Using a Custom Header for Versioning.
When you think about adding headers for a method in Spring,
this is what might come to mind. If you wanted to add a custom header named
Accept‑version, and only run this method if the value is v2, you could add the
headers value in the @RequestMapping annotation,
and it would work like you expect.
Let's take a look at this in our sample project.
Here's our ExampleService class.
This is a regular REST controller,
and we've got a couple of different methods defined. Notice
how they both map to /schedule, however,
we've included the headers value in the @RequestMapping annotation.
GetScheduleV1 takes the header Accept‑version=v1 and getScheduleV2
has the header value of Accept‑version=v2.
Each method has a slightly different return value so that we
can tell the difference when we call them.
Let's fire up the app and see how we hit these services with the custom header.
First, we'll try calling the endpoint without including the custom
header Notice that we get a 404 Not Found because we did not
include the proper header information.
Let's try running it with the Accept version valued v1.
Now we can see we get a response back with the message, Your
v1 schedule is Monday through Friday, 9‑5.
This matches the code that we annotated with the v1
version in our example service.
Now let's run it with the Accept‑version header with a
value of v2, and we can see the message, Your v2 schedule
is Monday through Wednesday, 6‑6.
This matches what we have mapped in our service for the v2 header.
Also notice in both examples, I was able to use the same URL, localhost:8081/schedule.